
FAQ (FREQUENTLY ANSWERED QUESTIONS)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Q: What the heck is GoboLinux?
------------------------------

GoboLinux is a Linux distribution that breaks with the historical Unix
directory hierarchy. Basically, this means that there are no directories
such as /usr and /etc. The main idea of the alternative hierarchy is to
store all files belonging to an application in its own separate subtree;
therefore we have directories such as /Programs/GCC/2.95.3/lib.

To allow the system to find these files, they are logically grouped in
directories such as /System/Links/Executables, which, you guessed it,
contains symbolic links to all executable files inside the Programs
hierarchy.

To maintain backwards compatibility with traditional Unix/Linux apps,
there are symbolic links that mimic the Unix tree, such as "/usr/bin ->
/System/Links/Executables", and "/sbin -> /System/Links/Executables"
(this example shows that arbitrary differentiations between files of the
same category were also removed).

Q: Is it a newbie-oriented distribution?
----------------------------------------

No, it is not. It is geared towards people who prefer to install
applications from the original source packages. That is the main reason
why each application gets its own directory: so you can install it from
source there and then remove it with an "rm -rf". So, you see, GoboLinux
is oriented at the experienced user who doesn't like things to be
automagical. Our scripts merely automate procedures, but they don't
"make decisions", and whenever they have to, they ask first.

The binary package collection was created as a way to avoid duplication
of effort between users. The source package project was created to store
"compilation rules" of the original source packages of the applications.
We do not wish to establish a "packaging standard" such as RPM. We
think that there is no real need for "packages" if the original .tar.gz
is properly made. For instance, when an application uses the GNU
AutoTools (autoconf, automake...) you don't need any GoboLinux package
to keep your system consistent.

However, given the more logical directory tree, GoboLinux could be made,
with a comprehensive binary package collection and graphical front-ends
to the scripts, into a newbie-friendly distribution, but that is not a
specific goal we seek (at least not in short or mid term).


Q: What is its current status?
------------------------------

This can be split in two questions, one about the status of the
GoboLinux tools, and one about the availability of packages.

GoboLinux relies on a series of tools that automate various tasks, such
as generation, installation and removal of packages, and most
importantly, maintainance of the symbolic links that keep the system
consistent. These tools (mostly are shell scripts, actually) are fairly
stable, since the idea behind GoboLinux is not new (see question about
the origins of GoboLinux).

Another important issue when using a distribution is the availability of
packages, ie, software that you can download in binary form and install
in it straight away. In this aspect, GoboLinux is very young and far
behind the other established distributions. We have, however, all
packages needed to get a running system (all packages that are part of
"Linux From Scratch" and "Beyond Linux From Scratch" projects, for
example), plus many others, such as KDE and all related packages,
Tcl/Tk, and the list just won't stop growing. Check out the latest list.


Q: What are your goals about GoboLinux?
---------------------------------------

Our first goal is to have a system that we enjoy using, that won't get
destroyed by some stupid package managing software that tries to
administrate our machine for us. Most Linux distributions try to make
life easier to the novice user, but this way they are making life much
harder for the more seasoned user. I don't claim that GoboLinux is
easier, only that it "makes more sense". However, people who use it say
that it is indeed easier to administrate, given that it lets you
understand your system better (if you are willing to understand it).

Another goal is to have binary compatibility between all users, so we
can compile stuff at home and share between each other, so that we won't
need to each of us download the same .tar.gz and waste time compiling it
(as we used to do).

We jokingly say that GoboLinux is "your last Linux distribution",
because we find it much easier to keep it up-to-date than with regular
distributions. Since I moved to a GoboLinux-style system, I only had to
reinstall the operating system once, in the event of The Great
Filesystem Crash. 

World domination is just a secondary goal. 

Q: What are the origins of GoboLinux?
-------------------------------------

GoboLinux has matured over a period of two years. Initially it started
as a way to install programs cleanly inside a regular user account at
the University (since I didn't have the real Linux tree available for
me, I chose to create my own fixing what I saw as mistakes in it). Then
I moved the system to my home computer, and it coexisted with the usual
Unix tree -- I used to call it LodeLinux, after my usual online
nickname.

One day, after The Great Filesystem Crash, I had to reinstall my whole
system, and I thought about using, in the new system, only the
alternative tree (in the pre-crash system, it already held about 80% of
all installed software). Detsch was also considering reinstalling his
Linux system, so we gathered one weekend at his house, and ran the
entire Linux From Scratch procedure, changing it to use the alternative
directory tree. We named it GoboLinux after Gobo, who is our financial
advisor, spiritual mentor and personal trainer.

Q: Who develops GoboLinux?
--------------------------

GoboLinux was first developed by Hisham Muhammad and Andre Detsch,
as the successor of a previous experiment of Hisham, LodeLinux. Since
then, we started getting more and more users, which, in the true spirit
of Free Software, are also contributing with the project. Guilherme
Bedin, our proud GoboLinux User #3, started to package the entire thing
in a CD. As time passes, more and more people are joining the project.
Lucas Correia Villa Real is our regular kernel hacker, with important
contributions of Felipe Damasio. Since 006 version, there are people from
all over the World contributing to GoboLinux, too many names to list here.


Q: Is there a performance loss in using symbolic links, making GoboLinux
------------------------------------------------------------------------
a bad choice for, say, heavily loaded servers?
----------------------------------------------

The short answer: yes, there is, at least theoretically, a performance
loss, and no, we never measured it (to know why I wrote theoretically,
read "the long answer"). 
     
The long answer: the actual impact of the use of symbolic links is
probably lower than you think. In a regular Linux distribution,
libraries are already accessed through symbolic links. In GoboLinux, our
links point directly to the actual file, so there is really one level of
indirection to reach a library. 
     
For example, take libc.so.6. It is in /lib, which is a link to
/System/Links/Libraries, but the actual file is in
/Programs/Glibc/Current, where Current is a link to 2.2.3, and inside
Glibc's lib directory you have that libc.so.6 is in fact a link to
libc-2.2.3.so. That's a lot of links right? However, libraries are
accessed like this: the directory /System/Links/Libraries (which is not a
link) is the only one stored in ldconfig's configuration (and
LD_LIBRARY_PATH). There libc.so.6 points directly to
/Programs/Glibc/2.2.3/lib/libc-2.2.3.so (no links in this whole path).
So we have exactly one level of indirection, just as in regular Linux
distributions. You may *see* a lot of links, but they are there mostly
to ease the system's management. 
     
Applications are also compiled with the --prefix set to their "homes" at
/Programs/App/version, so when a program looks for a datafile it does
not go through links. Reaching executables involves going through one
link, but, unlike regular Linux distributions it does not have to search
through items of a PATH (and I believe the ReiserFS's tree structuring
of a directory is more optimized than the shell's traversal through
elements of $PATH. Of course, there's always the shell's hash, but then,
there's always the filesystem cache). 

Q: What is /Depot? What is /Files?
----------------------------------

/Depot is a "free area" to store your documents, such as media files,
downloaded stuff, etc. You can think of it as a "community area", a "home
for all users" (some UNIX systems have a /pub directory for this purpose).
GoboLinux as a system ignores the contents of /Depot -- it only exists to
encourage users to store their random files under a single place and keep
the rest of the system clean.

/Files, on the other hand, is a standard GoboLinux directory. Inside it,
there are directories such as Fonts and Plugins, where shared files that
are required by applications but not necessarily part of them are kept.
     
Q: Who is Gobo?
---------------
 
If you really really really need to know, check out the webpage at
http://www.gobolinux.org/cartoon, but you are warned. 
